# Use Recursion to Create a Countdown

In a previous challenge, you learned how to use recursion to replace a for loop. Now, let's look at a more complex function that returns an array of consecutive integers starting with 1 through the number passed to the function.

As mentioned in the previous challenge, there will be a base case. The base case tells the recursive function when it no longer needs to call itself. It is a simple case where the return value is already known. There will also be a recursive call which executes the original function with different arguments. If the function is written correctly, eventually the base case will be reached.

For example, say you want to write a recursive function that returns an array containing the numbers 1 through n. This function will need to accept an argument, n, representing the final number. Then it will need to call itself with progressively smaller values of n until it reaches 1. You could write the function as follows:

function countup(n) {
  if (n < 1) {
    return [];
  } else {
    const countArray = countup(n - 1);
    countArray.push(n);
    return countArray;
  }
}
console.log(countup(5));
The value [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] will be displayed in the console.

At first, this seems counterintuitive since the value of n decreases, but the values in the final array are increasing. This happens because the push happens last, after the recursive call has returned. At the point where n is pushed into the array, countup(n - 1) has already been evaluated and returned [1, 2, ..., n - 1].